NAME: William Chong
EMAIL: williamchong256@gmail.com
ID: 205114665

Note for Grader:
	I got everything to work smoothly up until the compression/decompression part of the program (I believe). 
However, when I pass in the --compress option, things get weird. I observe that the client does compress the data
and sends it to the socket (which can be seen in the log file). But, either the server does not decompress it properly,
or there is something wrong when the client sends it to the socket. Either way, the client never registers any data
written back to the socket by the server.
	I hope that by looking at my code you can see that I did my best to implement the compression and decompression
using zlib on both the client and the server. Perhaps we can set up a time to look through it together and debug it?
Thank you for your time.	
	(PS: I found that the sanity test gets stuck on the compress, so I just inputted '^C' and it ends up finishing 
its run and says I fail 1 one part of the test.)


README
	This file outlines the contents of the lab1b-205114665.tar.gz tarball.


lab1b-server.c
	This is the C source code for the lab1b-server executable. This program sets up a server that communicates
with a client via a TCP socket. Required is the --port=portnum argument which specifies which port the server 
and client are on. 
	The [--shell=program] option if specified causes the program to fork() and execute the entered program
	in a child process. If not specified, the server simply echoes back the client input to the socket.

	The [--compress] option if specified causes the program to compress data sent to the client using the
	zlib library; it also decompresses data received from the server.

lab1b-client.c
	This is the C source code for the lab1b-client executable. This program sets up a client to communicate with
the aforementioned server via a TCP socket. Required is the --port=portnum argument which specifies which port
to communicate with the server on.
	The [--compress] option if specified causes the program to compress and decompress data sent and received
	from the server.
	
	The [--log=filename] option if specified causes the program to log all data transmitted through the TCP
	socket. If the filename does not exist, it creates one.


Makefile
	This file compiles and performs actions on the .c source code files.

	Targets:
		default: compiles both lab1b-server.c and lab1b-client.c (if not already compiled) with the
			-g, -Wextra, and -Wall for debugging. Also compiles with -lz to link zlib.
		server: compiles the lab1b-server executable by itself
		client: compiles the lab1b-client executable individually
		dist: makes the tarball for distribution, includes README, Makefile, lab1b-server.c, lab1b-client.c
		clean: clean the directory and return to untarred state.


